# CHIC proCHW Policy Dashboard
## The largest-ever public dashboard for community health worker policies
This repository houses the code for the CHIC proCHW Policy Dashboard, which can be found at http://joinchic.org/wins/#dashboard. Community Health Impact Coalition is making professional community health workers (proCHWs) the norm worldwide by changing guidelines, funding, and policy. Our goal is to see 95 low- and middle-income countries adopt proCHW policies. To track progress and accelerate policy change, we’ve updated the public-facing dashboard on proCHW policies to capture insights about program elements and implementation. The proCHW Policy Dashboard helps identify opportunities for policy change and retention, and guides our strategic mobilization to advance professional community health workers. This is a shared resource for the entire movement.

## Methods
We developed this dashboard in two phases: (a) policy analysis, and (b) design and visualization. Policy analysis involved identifying the latest community health policy (or equivalent government document) for the countries in scope through desk review and stakeholder outreach, extracting data into a structured data template, and initial validation of findings by CHIC collaborators. The dashboard design and visualization involved light data cleaning using SQL and R, basemap generation using the Mapbox platform, dashboard and visualization development using Mapbox GL JS, and AI-powered generation of country summaries using Google Gemini 2.0 Flash. The raw data powering the dashboard can be downloaded [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nrpW_mR51LSpkkaChva3ELZLBzsFwILnNLb1Y-icJKc/edit?gid=382190027#gid=382190027) along with the [codebook](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GeGg2jKWGOX5hywWwxtXQWHXXU3eYMz-hscyLw8VOTk/edit?gid=0#gid=0). This repository houses the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code that is used to fetch the data from this spreadsheet, link it by country ISO A3 code with a Mapbox style, and add interactive elements to produce a final dashboard.  

## Update Process
We are committed to providing the latest and greatest information in this policy dashboard. [We accept update requests for the data on a rolling/ongoing basis here.]([https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeQfSZ9YG6ecSnWiBoUshtKBRGXVyYPt4Hfo_nx4ugBFkaEww/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScOVmqZyiwVWaSUthgYE6p1XOY51TH763Ftr_LRHbtZItLXhA/viewform?usp=dialog)) Once received, our team will review your submission, validate the information, and publish updates to the dashboard on a quarterly basis. We encourage submissions to fill in missing data or to request an update for existing country data. You can check the date a country was last updated by clicking on the country on the map.

We also encourage pull requests! If you have ideas for extensions to the dashboard, or improvements to the code, please open a PR. 
